Internetworking requires sending data from the source network to the destination
network. This process is called routing and is supported by host addressing and
identification using the hierarchical IP addressing system. The internet layer
provides an unreliable datagram transmission facility between hosts located on
potentially different IP networks by forwarding datagrams to an appropriate
next-hop router for further relaying to its destination. The internet layer has
the responsibility of sending packets across potentially multiple networks. With
this functionality, the internet layer makes possible internetworking, the
interworking of different IP networks, and it essentially establishes the
Internet.

The internet layer does not distinguish between the various transport layer
protocols. IP carries data for a variety of different upper layer protocols.
These protocols are each identified by a unique protocol number: for example,
Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) and Internet Group Management Protocol
(IGMP) are protocols 1 and 2, respectively.

The Internet Protocol is the principal component of the internet layer, and it
defines two addressing systems to identify network hosts and to locate them on
the network. The original address system of the ARPANET and its successor, the
Internet, is Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4). It uses a 32-bit IP address and
is therefore capable of identifying approximately four billion hosts. This
limitation was eliminated in 1998 by the standardization of Internet Protocol
version 6 (IPv6) which uses 128-bit addresses. IPv6 production implementations
emerged in approximately 2006. 