*aaS is an acronym for as a service (e.g., X as a service), and refers to
something being presented to a customer, either internal or external, as a
service. As a Service, or XaaS (Anything as a Service) offerings provide
endpoints for customers/consumers to interface with which are usually API
driven, but can commonly be controlled via a web console in a user's web
browser.

Internally these often complex systems generally possess a high degree of
internal automation which generally provide varying levels of fault tolerance
and resiliency, the ability to scale up/down in or out to meet capacity and
performance requirements of the workloads submitted to the service by its
users/consumers, and are usually intended to operate their day to day functions
without the need for human intervention. IaaS features most commonly included in
this automation package are compute, storage, network, telemetry, and
logging/accountability features, but most IaaS components owe some portion of
their workload to these services. The current cloud computing ecosystem contains
multiple cloud providers, each with their own menu of these services for their
customers to consume on-demand or in some cases even with pre-scoped capacity
agreements.

Because (X)aaS services are generally based on open source projects with little
to no licensing costs, ideally require little to no human intervention to
perform their tasks/roles, could possibly be scaled out on demand to the full
physical resource capacity of an entire datacenter region, are maintained and
supported internally by the cloud provider, and use resources that are
expendable for reuse by other IaaS tasks and services, XaaS services represent a
large cost savings over traditional vendor-provided infrastructure and server
based equivalencies, which often include vendor-specific lock-in features and
imposed product feature set limitations which focus more around supporting that
vendor's product portfolio and feature roadmap than similar open source
projects. 