The application layer includes the protocols used by most applications for
providing user services or exchanging application data over the network
connections established by the lower level protocols. This may include some
basic network support services such as routing protocols and host configuration.
Examples of application layer protocols include the Hypertext Transfer Protocol
(HTTP), the File Transfer Protocol (FTP), the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
(SMTP), and the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP).[34] Data coded
according to application layer protocols are encapsulated into transport layer
protocol units (such as TCP streams or UDP datagrams), which in turn use lower
layer protocols to effect actual data transfer.

The TCP/IP model does not consider the specifics of formatting and presenting
data and does not define additional layers between the application and transport
layers as in the OSI model (presentation and session layers). According to the
TCP/IP model, such functions are the realm of libraries and application
programming interfaces. The application layer in the TCP/IP model is often
compared to a combination of the fifth (session), sixth (presentation), and
seventh (application) layers of the OSI model.

Application layer protocols are often associated with particular clientâ€“server
applications, and common services have well-known port numbers reserved by the
Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA). For example, the HyperText Transfer
Protocol uses server port 80 and Telnet uses server port 23. Clients connecting
to a service usually use ephemeral ports, i.e., port numbers assigned only for
the duration of the transaction at random or from a specific range configured in
the application.

At the application layer, the TCP/IP model distinguishes between user protocols
and support protocols.[35] Support protocols provide services to a system of
network infrastructure. User protocols are used for actual user applications.
For example, FTP is a user protocol and DNS is a support protocol.

Although the applications are usually aware of key qualities of the transport
layer connection such as the endpoint IP addresses and port numbers, application
layer protocols generally treat the transport layer (and lower) protocols as
black boxes which provide a stable network connection across which to
communicate. The transport layer and lower-level layers are unconcerned with the
specifics of application layer protocols. Routers and switches do not typically
examine the encapsulated traffic, rather they just provide a conduit for it.
However, some firewall and bandwidth throttling applications use deep packet
inspection to interpret application data. An example is the Resource Reservation
Protocol (RSVP).[citation needed] It is also sometimes necessary for
Applications affected by NAT to consider the application payload. 